# 0.19

This document is intended to help you upgrade from an older Polars version to Polars version `0.19.*`.

For the full list of changes, please see the [release notes](https://github.com/pola-rs/polars/releases/tag/py-0.19.0).

## Breaking changes

While this section does not contain an exhaustive list of all breaking changes, we think these are most likely to impact your code.

### Aggregation functions no longer support horizontal computation

This impacts aggregation functions like `sum`, `min`, and `max`.
These functions were overloaded to support both vertical and horizontal computation.
Recently, new dedicated functionality for horizontal computation was released, and horizontal computation was deprecated.

Restore the old behavior by using the horizontal variant, e.g. `sum_horizontal`.

#### Example

Before:

```shell
>>> df = pl.DataFrame({'a': [1, 2], 'b': [11, 12]})
>>> df.select(pl.sum('a', 'b'))  # horizontal computation
shape: (2, 1)
┌─────┐
│ sum │
│ --- │
│ i64 │
╞═════╡
│ 12  │
│ 14  │
└─────┘
```

After:

```shell
>>> df = pl.DataFrame({'a': [1, 2], 'b': [11, 12]})
>>> df.select(pl.sum('a', 'b'))  # vertical computation
shape: (1, 2)
┌─────┬─────┐
│ a   ┆ b   │
│ --- ┆ --- │
│ i64 ┆ i64 │
╞═════╪═════╡
│ 3   ┆ 23  │
└─────┴─────┘
```

### Update to `all` / `any`

`all` will now ignore null values by default, rather than treat them as `False`.

For both `any` and `all`, the `drop_nulls` parameter has been renamed to `ignore_nulls` and is now keyword-only.
Also fixed an issue when setting this parameter to `False` would erroneously result in `None` output in some cases.

To restore the old behavior, set `ignore_nulls` to `False` and check for `None` output.

#### Example

Before:

```shell
>>> pl.Series([True, None]).all()
False
```

After:

```shell
>>> pl.Series([True, None]).all()
True
```

### Improved error types for many methods

Improving our error messages is an ongoing effort.
We did a sweep of our Python code base and made many improvements to error messages and error types.
Most notably, many `ValueError`s were changed to `TypeError`s.

If your code relies on handling Polars exceptions, you may have to make some adjustments.

#### Example

Before:

```shell
>>> pl.Series(values=15)
...
ValueError: Series constructor called with unsupported type; got 'int'
```

After:

```shell
>>> pl.Series(values=15)
...
TypeError: Series constructor called with unsupported type 'int' for the `values` parameter
```

### Updates to expression input parsing

Methods like `select` and `with_columns` accept one or more expressions.
But they also accept strings, integers, lists, and other inputs that we try to interpret as expressions.
We updated our internal logic to parse inputs more consistently.

#### Example

Before:

```shell
>>> pl.DataFrame({'a': [1, 2]}).with_columns(None)
shape: (2, 1)
┌─────┐
│ a   │
│ --- │
│ i64 │
╞═════╡
│ 1   │
│ 2   │
└─────┘
```

After:

```shell
>>> pl.DataFrame({'a': [1, 2]}).with_columns(None)
shape: (2, 2)
┌─────┬─────────┐
│ a   ┆ literal │
│ --- ┆ ---     │
│ i64 ┆ null    │
╞═════╪═════════╡
│ 1   ┆ null    │
│ 2   ┆ null    │
└─────┴─────────┘
```

### `shuffle` / `sample` now use an internal Polars seed

If you used the built-in Python `random.seed` function to control the randomness of Polars expressions, this will no longer work.
Instead, use the new `set_random_seed` function.

#### Example

Before:

```python
import random

random.seed(1)
```

After:

```python
import polars as pl

pl.set_random_seed(1)
```

## Deprecations

Creating a consistent and intuitive API is hard, finding the right name for each function, method, and parameter might be the hardest part.
The new version comes with quite some naming changes, and you will most likely run into deprecation warnings when upgrading to `0.19`.

If you want to upgrade without worrying about deprecation warnings right now, you can add the following snippet to your code:

```python
import warnings

warnings.filterwarnings("ignore", category=DeprecationWarning)
```

### `groupby` renamed to `group_by`

This is not a change we make lightly, as it will impact almost all our users. But "group by" are really two different words, and our naming strategy dictates that these should be separated by an underscore.

Most likely, a simple search and replace will be enough to take care of this update:

- Search: `.groupby(`
- Replace: `.group_by(`

### `apply` renamed to `map_*`

`apply` is probably the most misused part of our API. Many Polars users come from pandas, where `apply` has a completely different meaning.

We now consolidate all our functionality for user-defined functions under the name `map`. This results in the following renaming:

| Before                      | After          |
| --------------------------- | -------------- |
| `Series/Expr.apply`         | `map_elements` |
| `Series/Expr.rolling_apply` | `rolling_map`  |
| `DataFrame.apply`           | `map_rows`     |
| `GroupBy.apply`             | `map_groups`   |
| `pl.apply`                  | `map_groups`   |
| `map`                       | `map_batches`  |
