docs/development/contributing/ide.md, before:

# IDE configuration

Using an integrated development environments (IDE) and configuring it properly will help you work on Polars more effectively.
This page contains some recommendations for configuring popular IDEs.

## Visual Studio Code

Make sure to configure VSCode to use the virtual environment created by the Makefile.

In addition, the extensions below are recommended.

### rust-analyzer

If you work on the Rust code at all, you will need the [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer) extension. This extension provides code completion for the Rust code.

For it to work well for the Polars code base, add the following settings to your `.vscode/settings.json`:

```json
{
    "rust-analyzer.cargo.features": "all",
}
```

### Ruff

The Ruff extension will help you conform to the formatting requirements of the Python code.
We use both the Ruff linter and formatter.
It is recommended to configure the extension to use the Ruff installed in your environment.
This will make it use the correct Ruff version and configuration.

```json
{
    "ruff.importStrategy": "fromEnvironment",
}
```

## PyCharm / RustRover / CLion

!!! info

    More information needed.

Commit message:

docs: Clarify how to set up the VSCode python interpreter.

docs/development/contributing/ide.md, after:

# IDE configuration

Using an integrated development environments (IDE) and configuring it properly will help you work on Polars more effectively.
This page contains some recommendations for configuring popular IDEs.

## Visual Studio Code

Make sure to configure VSCode to use the virtual environment created by the Makefile.
VSCode will prompt you to do this automatically once the Makefile creates the `.venv` folder.
You can also run the `Python: Select Interpreter` command to manually configure the workspace to use the local `.venv` interpreter.

In addition, the extensions below are recommended.

### rust-analyzer

If you work on the Rust code at all, you will need the [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer) extension. This extension provides code completion for the Rust code.

For it to work well for the Polars code base, add the following settings to your `.vscode/settings.json`:

```json
{
    "rust-analyzer.cargo.features": "all",
}
```

### Ruff

The Ruff extension will help you conform to the formatting requirements of the Python code.
We use both the Ruff linter and formatter.
It is recommended to configure the extension to use the Ruff installed in your environment.
This will make it use the correct Ruff version and configuration.

```json
{
    "ruff.importStrategy": "fromEnvironment",
}
```

## PyCharm / RustRover / CLion

!!! info

    More information needed.
